# Seven Lessons for [[digital-garden]] from Mark Bernstein"

There are 7 lessons to cultivate a digital garden [@bernsteinSevenLessons1998]:

1. Hypertext disorientation most often arises from muddled writing, or from the
   complexity of the subject. Many hypertexts do not require elaborate
   navigational apparatus.
2. Rigid hypertext structure is costly. By repeatedly inviting readers to leave
   the hypertext, by concentrating attention and traffic on navigation centers,
   and by pushing content away from key pages (and traffic), rigid structure can
   hide a hypertext's message and distort its voice.
3. The shortest path is not always the best.
4. Gardens are farmland that delights the senses; parks are wilderness, tamed
   for our enjoyment. Large hypertexts and Web sites must often contain both
   parks and gardens.
5. Visual effects and other irregularities enhance pathways. But use punctuation
   sparingly; unwanted interruptions are tiresome and intrusive.
6. The boundaries of parks should be especially clear, lest readers see them as
   mere wilderness. Gateways introduce structure and guideposts confirm it,
   assuring visitors that they are amid a crafted experience, not chaotic
   wilderness.
7. Rigid structure makes a large hypertext seem smaller. Complex and intricate
   structure makes a small hypertext seem larger, inviting deeper and more
   thoughtful exploration.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[digital-garden]: digital-garden.md "Digital Garden"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
