# 6 Patterns of Digital Garden

Maggie Appleton elaborates 6 patterns, on top of the [[digital-garden-7-lessons]]
to create [[digital-garden]].

[[digital-garden-side-effects]]

## 6 Patterns of Gardening

1. **Topography over Timelines**

> Gardens don't consider publication dates the most important detail of a
> piece of writing. Dates might be included on posts, but they aren't the
> structural basis of how you navigate around the garden. Posts are connected
> to other by posts through related themes, topics, and shared context.

2. **Continuous Growth**

> Gardens are designed to evolve alongside your thoughts. When you first have
> an idea, it's fuzzy and unrefined. You might notice a pattern in your
> corner of the world, but need to collect evidence, considercounter-arguments,
> spot similar trends, and research who else has thunk such thoughts before
> you. In short, you need to do your homework and critically think about it
> over time.

3. **Imperfection and Learning in Public**

Web space had grown to be minimalist and cleaned where personal brandig and
accomplashisment is share. Then Social media came with it's all curated
content that rippled down into the web space.

> Gardens are imperfect by design. They don't hide their rough edges or
> claim to be a permanent source of truth.

This freedom of course comes with great responsibility. Publishing imperfect
and early ideas requires that we make the status of our notes clear to
readers. You should include some indicator of how "done” they are, and how
much effort you've invested in them.

4. **Playful, Personal, and Experimental**

> Digital gardens should be just as unique and particular as their
> vegetative counterparts. The point of a garden is that it's a personal
> playspace. You organise the garden around the ideas and mediums that match
> your way of thinking, rather than off someone else's standardised template.
> [...] Gardens offer us the ability to present ourselves in forms that aren't
> cookie cutter profiles. They're the higher-fidelity version, complete with
> quirks, contradictions, and complexity.

5. **Intercropping and Content Diversity**

> It is also absurd to ignore the fact we're living in an audio-visual
> cornucopia that the web makes possible. Podcasts, videos, diagrams,
> illustrations, interactive web animations, academic papers, tweets, rough
> sketches, and code snippets should all live and grow in the garden.

6. **Independent Ownership**

> Gardening is about claiming a small patch of the web for yourself, one you
> fully own and control. This patch should not live on the servers of Facebook,
> LinkedIn, Twitter, Instagram (aka. also Facebook), or Medium. None of these
> platforms are designed to help you slowly build and weave personal knowledge.
> Most of them actively fight against it.

[@appletonBriefHistoryEthos2020]

## more than organizing publications

it is a way to consume information in time of [[infobésite]] and constant
**notification** : a place to relax, leisure, enjoy!

## extra links

1. https://hapgood.us/2015/10/17/the-garden-and-the-stream-a-technopastoral/
2. https://tomcritchlow.com/2018/10/10/of-gardens-and-wikis/
3. https://joelhooks.com/digital-garden
4. https://stackingthebricks.com/how-blogs-broke-the-web/
5. https://nesslabs.com/digital-garden-set-up

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"

[digital-garden-7-lessons]: digital-garden-7-lessons.md "Seven Lessons for digital-garden from Mark Bernstein""
[digital-garden]: digital-garden.md "Digital Garden"
[digital-garden-side-effects]: digital-garden-side-effects.md "Side effects of roaming throught a wild garden"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
